# Exploring the History of a Git Repository

There are different commands that help you visualize the history of a repository

## *git log*

	Shows the commit history of the current branch

Forms to refer to a commit in git:

* `git log`: not very useful. It squashes everything into a single list, making it difficult to make sense of commits, branches, merges, etc.
* `git log --graph --decorate --online`: gives you a graph-like view of the history (`--graph`) and shows the position references (`--decorate`) in one line (`--oneline`):

#### Example

```
$ git log --graph --decorate --oneline
*   2ebdef6 (HEAD -> master, origin/master) Merged     <--- (HEAD -> branch, remote branch)
|\
| * 07a2975 (tomato) Add tomato to guacamole
* | 269a94f Add onion
|/
* d6a541c Add guacamole
* 8438f4e Adds apple pie recipe
* e34f8d6 Adds Tikka Masala
* fb0c0e9 First commit
* 1111932 Initial commit
```

### Uses

* `git log`: the most useful command to explore the repository's history. Examples
* `git log --patch`: detail diff for each commit in log. You can see exactly which changes were introduced in each commit
* `git log --grep <word>`: filters commits that contain the '<word>' in the message.
* `git log -G<word>`: shows all the commits that added or removed the word '<word>' from any file in the commit.
* `git log -N`: visualizes a specific branch of commits, in this case only the last N commits in the log
* `git log HEAD~5..HEAD`: shows all the commits from the HEAD to the fifth parent of head. Example: `git log branch_one..master` means *"go from branch_one to master and show me all the new commits that you see"*

## *git show*

	Gives information about a specific commit like date, author, etc.

#### Example

```
$ git show 2ebdef6
commit 2ebdef6b58e1d45e392fbe61bff13b2c60af2e6d (HEAD -> master)
Merge: 269a94f 07a2975
Author: Me <my@email.com>
Date:   Tue Oct 16 17:40:22 2018 -0300

    Merged

diff --cc recipes/guacamole.txt
index 465be6e,6fe57ad..64c6f66
--- a/recipes/guacamole.txt
+++ b/recipes/guacamole.txt
@@@ -5,4 -5,4 +5,5 @@@ Serrano chile
  Cilantro
  Salt
  Black pepper
 +Onion
+ Tomato

```

### Uses

* `git show <commit_hash>`: shows the information of the commit with the given hash.
* `git show <branch_name>` or `git show HEAD`: do the same thing as the previous option, only using other references that point to that specific commit, the *name of the branch* that has it as the current commit and the *HEAD pointer*, which is pointing at this branch. 
* `git show HEAD^`: the '\^' character means *"the parent commit of"*, so in this case this command is equivalent to `git show 269a94f` (the parent commit of the commit pointed by HEAD). Successive '\^' characters refer to the successive parent commits.
* `git show HEAD~2`: it's equivalent to `git show HEAD^^`. The number after the '~' character refers to the order of the parent commit from the reference given (in this case, the parent of the parent of the HEAD commit). Useful to refer to the n-th parent of a commit.
* `git show HEAD^2`: this tells git *"from the head commit, go back 1 commit, and then pick the second parent"*. In this case, since the parent of HEAD has 2 parents from two different branches, it picks the commit `07a2975`. In general: `git show HEAD^N`, where 'N' is the n-th parent of a commit.

## *git blame*

	Shows you from which commit each line in a file comes from

#### Example

```
$ git blame recipes/apple_pie.txt
8438f4ec (Me 2018-09-28 16:00:07 -0300 1) pre-made pastry   <--- latest_commit_where_line_changed (user date time time_zone line_number)
8438f4ec (Me 2018-09-28 16:00:07 -0300 2) 1/2 cup butter
8438f4ec (Me 2018-09-28 16:00:07 -0300 3) 3 tablespoons flour
8438f4ec (Me 2018-09-28 16:00:07 -0300 4) 1 cup sugar
8438f4ec (Me 2018-09-28 16:00:07 -0300 5) 1 tbsp cinnamon
8438f4ec (Me 2018-09-28 16:00:07 -0300 6) 9 Granny Smith apples

```

## *git diff*

	Used to compare two commits

#### Example

```
$ git diff HEAD HEAD~2
diff --git a/recipes/guacamole.txt b/recipes/guacamole.txt
index 64c6f66..6cb0734 100644
--- a/recipes/guacamole.txt		<--- only file modified between the two commits
+++ b/recipes/guacamole.txt
@@ -5,5 +5,3 @@ Serrano chiles
 Cilantro
 Salt
 Black pepper
-Onion					<--- line modified
-Tomato

```

### Uses

* `git diff branch_one branch_two`: compares the latest commits of two different branches.

